Within Step 4, we identified a series of metrics relevant to the hazards we verified previously, these metrics set bounds in which the hazards can be approached safely, however, this begs the question, what happens when we are unable to meet our metric targets?

From steps 5-1 and 5-2, we understand the triggers which cause failure and the minimum state we seek to return to from failure, from here, we must determine the immediate Response, how we can Assure this and determine the fallback Process. We call this process, the TRAP paradigm.

The TRAP paradigm is defined as:

- Trigger

    The condition that indicates a metric boundary has been breached

- Response

    Deciding the level of response, from local recovery to systemic intervention.

- Assure

    Defining the safe degraded mode of operation.

- Process

    The enactment of the fallback plan as a procedural routine.

TRAP shares ancestry with well-known decision cycles such as John Boyd’s OODA loop (Observe–Orient–Decide–Act) and SACE’s SUDA model (Sense–Understand–Decide–Act). 

Theoretically, we can predict a large amount of failure-states, since railway is a largely restrictive domain. If the [ODM](ref:d7) is comprehensive enough, then hazards should be properly accounted for, especially when considering the restricted operation possibilities inherent to rail; ultimately a train can only speed up or slow down.

The emphasis here is on proceduralisation. The TRAP paradigm provides a suitable framework for structuring fault tolerance activities incorporated into a system. This paradigm allows a clear separation from the abnormal activities of a system from its normal activity, which is necessary if the complexity of the system is not increased by a degraded fallback mode of operation. The process in which these Assurance arguments are implemented will inherently result in an exeption being raised and the ecosystem will need to adjust, however, minimizing the adjustment needed from the ecosystem is a challenge in of itself. 

Autonomous planning is a field in of itself and the process of selecting deprecated modes of operation is not a simple feat, especially when considering deprecated operation as a response to an external failure. Put another way, the T and the R of the TRAP cycle is theoretically simpler than the A and P.

However, we are lucky in that rail has a long, storied history to rely upon, deprecated operation of rail has documentation stretching decades. Partially automated systems such as the London Underground must switch back to manual operation in the event that it enters an area with little to no support for GoA-2 capabilities.