The Hazard Register is the primary deliverable of Step 3.1, serving as the formal record of all hazards validated within the given ODM. It consolidates each hazard’s conceptual origin, operational manifestation, eco–ego responsibility, and its identifiable triggers or indicators within operation.

Unlike the exploratory fault trees of [D4](ref:d4), which capture the possibility of failure, the Hazard Register captures those hazards that remain credible after validation. Each hazard entry represents a traceable link between the scenario definition, the ODM, and future assurance evidence.

**Process**
The Hazard Register takes the form of a database, showing a Unique Identifier, the concept, the description, a classification of Eco/Ego responsibility, the method of detecting the hazard in real-time operation and finally, a supporting reference.

**Example**

<style type="text/css">
.tg  {border-collapse:collapse;border-spacing:0;}
.tg td{border-color:black;border-style:solid;border-width:1px;font-family:Arial, sans-serif;font-size:14px;
  overflow:hidden;padding:10px 5px;word-break:normal;}
.tg th{border-color:black;border-style:solid;border-width:1px;font-family:Arial, sans-serif;font-size:14px;
  font-weight:normal;overflow:hidden;padding:10px 5px;word-break:normal;}
.tg .tg-0lax{text-align:left;vertical-align:top}
.tg .tg-0pky{border-color:inherit;text-align:left;vertical-align:top}
</style>
<table class="tg"><thead>
  <tr>
    <th class="tg-0lax">ID</th>
    <th class="tg-0lax">Concept</th>
    <th class="tg-0lax">Description</th>
    <th class="tg-0pky">Eco/Ego</th>
    <th class="tg-0pky">Detection Method</th>
    <th class="tg-0lax">Source</th>
  </tr></thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0lax">1</td>
    <td class="tg-0lax">SPAR</td>
    <td class="tg-0lax">A train passes a red signal without authorisation, risking collision or route conflict. The failure can occur through visual occlusion, signal misinterpretation, or loss of braking authority.</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">Both</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">TBA</td>
    <td class="tg-0lax">Network Rail Sighting Handbook</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0lax">2</td>
    <td class="tg-0lax">SPAD</td>
    <td class="tg-0lax">A SPAR is posthumously declared a SPAD, should incident arise.</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">Eco</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">Eco decision given context</td>
    <td class="tg-0lax">Network Rail Signalling Handbook</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td class="tg-0lax">3</td>
    <td class="tg-0lax">Low Adhesion</td>
    <td class="tg-0lax">Reduction in wheel–rail adhesion due to leaf buildup, moisture, or ice, increasing stopping distance and potentially leading to incident.</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">Both (Lean Ego)</td>
    <td class="tg-0pky">Onboard wheel-slip sensors and traction control feedback,</td>
    <td class="tg-0lax">Network Rail Low-Adhesion Guidelines (Autumn 2023); RAIB Report R22/2022 (Carmont Derailment); Stakeholder interviews (train operators).</td>
  </tr>
</tbody></table>