Eco-Ego classification defines the boundaries of responsibility for a given hazard, identifying which side of the system has control or influence over each contributing factor. Ideally, we would assign as much control to the cab as possible, as we are assuming the cab to be the specific system which we have the most control over.

From [[D3]](ref:d3) we understand what hazards are present within the given environment, from [[D4]](ref:d4) we understand the basics of causation within the environment and from [[E]](ref:e) we understand the context in which hazards will be present.

Eco-Ego classification is the process of seperating the hazards identified within [[D3]](ref:d3) into components and assigning those components to either Eco or Ego.

**Example: SPAD under a bridge**

Consider a system which, after a slowdown caused by an approach to a bridge, is unable to see a signal positioned on the far side. This lack of visibility could arise for several reasons. Overgrowth of vegetation may obscure the signal, or vandalism might cause a hardware fault within the signalling logic. Both would be classified as ecosystem failures, since they result from conditions outside the cab’s direct control. Conversely, a lack of route familiarity, improper anticipation of the signal’s location, or hardware failure within the cab itself would be considered ego failures, due to the implied failure/lack of robustness when sending the system on the route for the day. 

From [2-2](/#/steps/2-hazard-identification/examples/2-2) we understand our hazards to be:

- SPAD
- Low Adhesion on Track
- Trespass
- Structural Degredation of Overpass
- Signal Fault

We assign each hazard to a relevant paradigm of either Eco or Ego, it is here that we encounter a certain level of nuance, it is the Ecosystems job to detect Trespass before the ego-vehicle comes in contact with the Trespassee, however, if the Ecosystem fails to detect or alert the Ego-vehicle, then the ego-vehicle must detect the Trespassee and react accordingly. Ultimately making Trespass an ego-responsibility. 

A similar logic can be applied to low track adhesion, while it is often times a given ego-vehicle that is likely to detect a buildup of leaves causing low adhesion, the first detection is unlikely to be a problem for operation, so long as the system then reports the adhesion, it should become a ecosystem responsibility.

[D5](ref:d5) is the output most likely to change given new information in the later steps of SACRED. Note the language used within our example of D5, if prudent, step 2-3 is an oppertunity to update [D2](ref:d2) accordingly.

Once hazards have been assigned to either ecosystem or ego-vehicle, we move to step [2-4](/#/steps/2-hazard-identification/examples/2-4), to analyse how we expect a system to react to a hazard not within it's scope.