Hazard Compensation is the process of determining how each identified hazard is actively mitigated, tolerated, or transferred between the ego and the eco.

If an eco-hazard is presented to the ego-vehicle, it would not be proper for the ego-vehicle to consider the hazard "out of domain" and discard, rather, we attempt to compensate for the ecosystems failure and assess the hazard in any way we can.

Step 2-4 does not have a specific deliverable, rather it provides the context necessary for [[D7]](ref:d7) as the verified ODM will be important for SACRED [Step 5](/#/steps/5-failure-actualisation) and [Step 6](/#/steps/6-design-assurance).


**Example: Leaves on the Track.**
As discussed within [2-3](/#/steps/2-hazard-identification/examples/2-3) and demonstrated within [[D5],](ref:d5) 'Leaf Adhesion' is an example of a hazard which is relevant to both the Ecosystem and the Ego-vehicle. According to the UK Weather Advisory Task Force [[24]](cite:24) leafy buildup and subsequent brake adhesion problems on a train are supposed to be identified ahead of time. However, in the spirit of 'Trust but Verify' and in order to ensure that we are able to compensate for any mistakes, it is important to classify when a hazard can be assured in the event of a mistake.

In this case, the Ecosystem is responsible for preventative measures: regular vegetation management, drainage maintenance, and the issuing of temporary speed restrictions during the low-adhesion season. These actions constitute ecosystem compensation. The Ego-vehicle, however, must be capable of reactive compensation. Even if the ecosystem fails to predict or communicate a local adhesion issue, the cab must still recognise the loss of traction and respond appropriately. This might include automatic slip detection, modification of braking profiles, or invoking a degraded-mode procedure that prioritises safety over schedule adherence. The speicifics of the reactive compensation is dependent on [Step 6](/#/steps/6-Design-Assurance) particularly, how the State of the Art as defined in [[A]](ref:a) can be used in order to meet the goals set in the MoSCoW structure [[D2]](ref:d2).

Once hazards have been seperated and failure classified, we move to step [2-5](/#/steps/2-hazard-identification/examples/2-5), to analyse how we expect each system to handle the given hazard.