**Purpose**

Broadly, 2.5 as a step is to analyse each hazard from [D3](ref:d3) as independent entities from the perspective of the ecosystem and the ego-vehicle. Importantly, while each hazard has been assigned a responsible party through [D5](ref:d5), in preparation for [Step 5](/#/steps/5-safety-actualisation), each paradigm shall consider each hazard. This sets up the nuance required for step [2.6](#/steps/2-hazard-identification/examples/2-6)

**Examples**
Using our examples from [2.2](#/steps/2-hazard-identification/examples/2-2) we can understand our hazards to be:

- SPAD
- Low Adhesion
- Trespass
- Structural Degredation of Overpass
- Signal Fault

While [D5](ref:d5) ultimately assigns Trespass as an Ego-hazard, 2.5(b) we explore Trespass from an Eco-perspective. Depending on the level of technology available through [A](ref:a) and [E](ref:e), we can understand the level to which the Ecosystem can make the job of the Ego-vehicle easier. In our example as defined within (1.3)[/#/steps/1-concept-assurance/examples/1-3] and from a preliminary exploration of the area for [E](ref:e) we know that network rail operate security around the area of the track and outside of the direct pedestrain area of the station, the track is monitored and fenced. To this end, we can assume the ecosystems job to be "done" to the degree that accidental trespass is close to impossible. 

While incidents which may occur as a result of intentional trespass is not considered the responsibility of the railway ego-vehicle, the prevention of such incidents are to be avoided where possible, put simply, suicide on the rail is ultimately a tragedy and is not the fault of the ego-vehicle, but also must be prevented where possible. To this end, the ego-vehicle is still required to be able to detect and react to trespass. 