The Safe Operating Context (SOC), not to be confused with the [Context of Safe Operation (CSO)]((/#/steps/1-concept-assurance/examples/1.3-e)), is a key deliverable from the SACRED methodology. It is also, a key input for the SACE methodology.

The SOC details the minimum viability of operation which can be declared safe within a given environment, considering both ecosystem limitations, i.e speed limits, signal limits or passenger safety limits, with hardware limitations, i.e visibility, data communication speed and reaction time, taking the more safety conservative of the two.

Consider a scenario in which the speed limit of a section of track is 80mph, however, due to intense fog, the vision range is such so the cab can only see ~80 meters ahead. Current signalling safety standards suggest that a train must be able to  see a signal 4 seconds before it passes it, with 80 meters of visibility and 4 seconds of required vision, the train can therefore not travel faster than 20 meters per second, or 44mph. So while the metrics are static: 4 seconds of required vision and maximum line speed of 80mph, the SOC changes as the context changes, as fog increases or decreases in intensity, so does the vision range of the system, meaning what is considered "safe" changes alongside it [note](cite:SOCNote).

For a second example, consider a scenario where a given route operates 24 hours per day, but the system can only safely operate during daylight. In this scenario, the system would require human operation outside of the window of daylight hours, meaning the system inherently is limited to human fallback operation.

One intention for the SACRED methodology is to define the SOC from that which is purely defined by the ODM, to one which considers the limitations of [State of the Art.](ref:a)